---
timestamp: 'Tue Oct 21 2025 20:52:18 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)'
parent: '[[..\20251021_205218.21e4bef4.md]]'
content_id: da608aa82aa4412cf496a66ee5b8f07f58d28b35d1f68e43419670d475b83f41
---

# Application Pitch

**Name**\
StudyCircle

**Motivation**\
In academic communities, it is a difficult task to stay academically connected with your peers; knowing who is taking what class, sending a classwide message, and coordinating class-specific schedules are all tasks that require exhausting amounts of organization.

**Key Features**

* **Shared Classees:** Users can see what classes and sections the members of their community are in through both a calendar and list view for ease of navigation. This addresses the problem by having an interactive centralized hub where every member is aware of the academic schedules of others, allowing them to stay academically connected. This feature allows direct stakeholders (like brothers in this context) to be aware of each other’s academic load and work together in shared subjects. Indirect stakeholders (like the Scholarship Chair or professors) reap the benefits of students working together by seeing an increase in academic performance and academic organization.
* **Course Spaces:** General course posting site where users can post written class notes, study session times, class reminders, and similar information. This addresses the problem by promoting the sharing of information and making it easy and accessible to communicate with others in your community who share classes with a user. For stakeholders, this allows for easier exchange of non-formal class information like advice or additional notes created by users that builds an additional layer of academic connection between peers and fosters a more comfortable class environment.
* **Community Poster Board:** Users can make general posts, announcements, or questions to their community. This can be used by all members for community-wide activities, mentorship postings, or events that focus more on academic gatherings. This addresses the problem by providing a fast way to voice and take care of academic and community needs. A feature such as this not only benefits users (such as brothers) by providing an environment to academically interact even if they are not in the same class but also leadership figures in the community (like scholarships) by highlighting gaps in engagement or support.

***
