---
timestamp: 'Tue Oct 21 2025 20:26:23 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)'
parent: '[[..\20251021_202623.e141a7e6.md]]'
content_id: 61edbb436b624ea22c3c7b8028b873852d9823f5997297af427ffdc6226c8713
---

# Problem Statement

**Problem Domain: Fraternity Life**\
Being in a fraternity has played a great part in my social, academic, and personal development in college. I enjoy spending time with my fellow brothers through casual hangouts, supporting each other academically, and helping the fraternity grow by being involved with our inner logistics and formal events. Although not as involved as I used to be, I still like to help out whenever I can and offer my point of view as a senior by being a mentor to my underclassmen. Particularly, I would like for our organization to be more organized in many different aspects of how we run things and have members take more accountability and initiative.

**Problem: Staying Academically Connected to Brothers**\
This problem includes knowing which classes brothers are taking, which classes they have taken in the past and are knowledgeable in, as well as the specific schedule they have and academic extracurriculars they are a part of. This problem is often tackled by either having a spreadsheet at the beginning of the semester that brothers fill out or having multiple Slack messages of people asking “Who is taking X class?” This is often not very efficient as people’s schedules can drastically change after the first week, messages can get lost, or people may know a class another is taking but not the version or section they are in. Overall, this is an issue of disorganization that ends up in a lack of awareness and information available. I selected this problem because this is a genuine issue that I have dealt with as a scholarship chair in my fraternity and one in which every member in the fraternity could benefit from a solution. Its feasibility is also not out of reach, with similar problems (yet still different) being solved by applications like Hydrant and CourseRoad.

**Stakeholders**\
Brother (the user who shares their classes and views others’); Scholarship Chair (officer who keeps track of how brothers are doing in their classes and how they interact with each other academically); Professors/TAs (teach and administer the classes that brothers are taking); University/IFC (administrators who keep track of the academic performance of fraternities and students). **Impacts:** Brothers can perform better academically and feel more supported knowing which class their fellow members have taken and their proficiency in them. The Scholarship Chair is able to better keep track of brother academic performance and create plans for continued academic growth within the fraternity. Professors/TAs are interested in seeing better performance from their students and can have a reduced workload if students receive support from others taking the class. University/IFC can have a favorable outlook toward the fraternity, seeing that members take academic growth and performance seriously as part of a fraternity’s values.

**Evidence**

* **[Go Greek and See Grades Drop](https://www.insidehighered.com/news/2019/01/07/study-grades-greek-affiliated-students-suffer-after-joining-fraternity-sorority):** This article highlights the fact that the grade average of students tends to drop after joining Greek life and explores the causes for this. This finding demonstrates that an organized academic support system within fraternities can have great benefits to all parties involved—brothers, fraternities, and the university itself.
* **[The Benefits of Friendships in Academic Settings: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis — PMC](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10800095/):** The presence of friends and acquaintances in academic settings not only has a positive impact on grades, but also on the mental health of students. Additionally, a balance of social connections is necessary inside and outside of class, making organization of how to connect with friends academically in the proper manner extremely important.
* **[Group Project? Taking Turns, Working With Friends May Improve Grades | UW News](https://www.washington.edu/news/2017/09/25/group-project-taking-turns-working-with-friends-may-improve-grades/):** Not only do group activity and studying aid students in their class performance, but having balanced roles and good connections in said groups is also necessary. Not having people you properly connect with in group activities or collective studying can lead to negative impacts on students across many facets of their college life.
* **[The 5 Big Benefits of Studying With Friends (Including How It Could Save You Money) | Torrens University](https://www.torrens.edu.au/stories/blog/student-life/the-5-big-benefits-of-studying-with-friends-and-how-it-could-save-you-money):** This article also discusses the many benefits of feeling academically supported by your social circle. It also places a small emphasis on the struggle of first-year students finding friends in their class; a point that lends itself to how joining a community that prioritizes academic growth can be of great help.
* **[How Do I Schedule Classes With Friends? — CGH](https://collegegranthub.com/student-questions/how-do-i-schedule-classes-with-friends/):** There are many considerations to think about when planning what classes to take with your friends. These include the requirements that everyone has in their academic plans, their schedule preferences, and many more. There are many more factors to consider when academically coordinating with others than just classes you want to take together.
* **[Slack Didn’t Break Remote Working, Your Colleagues Did | WIRED](https://www.wired.com/story/slack-remote-working-broken/):** In our current digital world, while the use of messaging services like Slack is great for communicating general ideas or conversations, they can get extremely convoluted very quickly. This can lead to inefficiency in work, disorganization, and ideas getting lost. Thus, this suggests that different needs may sometimes require different platforms so that everything has its own place in an organization’s workflow.
* **[A Systematic Review of the Literature Describing the Outcomes of Near-Peer Mentoring Programs for First Year Medical Students | BMC Medical Education](https://bmcmededuc.biomedcentral.com/articles/10.1186/s12909-018-1195-1):** Although more focused on medical students, this paper greatly explores how mentoring—particularly aimed at new students—is of great use for students. Mentoring and coordinating with others on subjects that they are familiar with can offer a helpful perspective that is different from that of professors and TAs.
* **[CourseRoad](https://courseroad.mit.edu/road/$defaultroad$):** An application that is used by MIT students to create long-term graduation plans and schedules. Much like Hydrant, this focuses on more individual planning, but on a long-term scale. However, it is great to keep track of classes you have previously taken and classes that you might be interested in in the future.
* **[MIT OpenGrades](https://opengrades.mit.edu/):** OpenGrades is a tool where students can share their personal experiences that they have had with different classes at MIT. It is great at sharing insights, like what is hard about a class or the time commitment, but does not have any features related to scheduling or organizing academic goals.
* **[Hydrant](https://hydrant.mit.edu/):** Hydrant is a tool used by MIT students to view all the schedule configurations for an individual’s classes that they are taking in a given semester. It has many useful features like class search and a list of class times and locations, but is focused on individual planning rather than group coordination.

***
