---
timestamp: 'Tue Oct 21 2025 13:00:53 GMT-0400 (Eastern Daylight Time)'
parent: '[[..\20251021_130053.30f1f459.md]]'
content_id: 0ffbe1a4880351cd601b764d637ae5d34fe813b864f3a67a650cbc8d0914778d
---

# User Journey

A user is starting their college semester, and they want to figure out which of the people in their fraternity are taking the same classes as they are so they can set up a study group. The user opens our app on their laptop and sets their schedule by choosing the classes that they are taking this semester. They are able to choose from available classes in the MIT class catalog and select their lecture/recitation/lab sections depending on the class, as well as choose the visibility of their schedule to their community. Once they have set up their schedule, they can go to the “Communities” tab to create their own or join an already-existing community with their fraternity members. After setting up their community, they now have access to their respective course spaces and community board.

After joining a community, the user can see which classes each community member is taking, as well as their schedule (if opted in), so they have an idea of how many people will react to their post if they choose to focus on a specific class. When they go to the “Classes” tab, they can see their own schedule with their own classes in a calendar format, which they can then click to see which members of their community are taking. If they wish to have a more structured list ordered by member, they can go to “Class Member View” and see a list of members who set their visibility as available along with the classes they are taking. With this, they can take the route of creating a group chat directly with members in their community taking their class of interest.

With all the setup complete, the user can now choose how they want to create a study group. Since they wish to send a general posting to their whole fraternity asking who wants to be in a study group, they will navigate to the “Communities” tab, where they can create and view postings by members. Once on that page, they click Make Post,” where they can fill in the “Title” field, the “Body” field, and add a “Looking for Group” tag. With that complete, their posting is viewable by the whole community, and others can reply to the post in order to communicate with the user. Now the user can just wait for other members to reply in order to start their study group!
